{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f39\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f40\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Billy Murphy}{\operator Billy Murphy}{\creatim\yr2007\mo5\dy3\hr9\min46}{\revtim\yr2007\mo5\dy3\hr12\min28}{\version61}
{\edmins162}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1763}{\nofchars10052}{\*\company Shared Marketing Services, Inc.}{\nofcharsws12344}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20 Your Italia 90 / Celtic Tiger references have had me going over the modern era in my 
head the last few days, this is probably a well worn conversation but,  heres my tuppence.
\par  
\par In addition to a great education system and prescient government policy, the major milestones as i see them, bulleted for your convenience as I have rambled on bit below.
\par 
\par 1 ) 1985 - Dublin Millenium celebration / 1985 U2 Concert in Croke Park. precursor to Italia90. /  Self Aid deserves honorable mention.
\par 2 ) 1990 - Italia 90 / Hot House Flowers eurovision. precursor to riverdance.
\par 3 ) 1995 - Riverdance / Economy ( bearing fruits of 1980's policies ? ) / Dublin nightlife at its Zenith.
\par 4 ) 2000 - Actual Millenium. David Gray Generation, cooling down from all the clubbing / David Gray concert / Dublin living up to the press it gets in international magazines / Not just Blooms Dublin anymore / Vectorial Elevation, a good bookend
 to the earlier laser show, close to twenty years prior / IT Meltdown in US, Economic anxiety, bit of a shakeup, Is it all Over ?
\par 5 ) 2005 - Present ? Snow Patrol Generation. Hosting of Ryder Cup / Coming together of National Sports Teams under one roof, albeit temporarily / Progress on North situation / Opening of Tunnel
. some things never change, we are still the same but we are also better, much much better.
\par 
\par ( Interesting conversation piece, Band Aid Phenomonon, brainchild of ex pat, Bob Geldof ( and Midge-Ure ), an international event: Is Sir Bob the link between the seventies and the eighties, The Sir Bono of his day. Quick Conversation, Yes he is. But, 
I cant really deliberate on his contributions in full as he really belongs to the Seventies, also, he did all his work abroad  ) ( Also : Dublin Millenium
 celebration, beginning of the end for Banana Republic era and the coming of Age of the Unforgettable Fire / Joshua Tree generation )
\par  
\par Anyway, Prior to 1990 was the Dublin Millenium and the Laser show finale with Radio 2 synchronization which was a complete disaster. Typical orgainizational dissaray of the day. Everyone has a good time though of course, we weren\rquote 
t that demanding, I remember going up to killakee road with the carrolls and having a great time of it with Dero. This was around 1985, Dublin lay 
below, I was 11,  the unforgetable fire had been released. The 1985 Croke Park concert was massive( i wasnt at it, I remember you went with Mareid and Stephen with Roy and HHH, I remember you both 
talking about perhaps even meeting each other there ). This was a sort of homecoming for the lads who had just gone big on an International stage. It was a national event too that i would say was a precursor of the Italia 90 phenomonon.
\par 
\par Italia 90 was a huge coalescing of national Identity around an event that was not religion or traditional music. First off, I was no where near the Liffey Trust during the 1990 world cup, i think i did a stint for them during the euro92 or USA94
 qualifiers or something and got confused the other day
. Anyway, I was 16 years old, just finished 5th year and riding high on the street cred that working on the bridge had brought, revelling in the prime of my rocker years. Knockers had gone away for a couple of weeks
 and got me a job filling in for him in the mornings for a couple of hours as a bicycle courier for a solicitor around aungier place, stanley siev was his name. I remember when we got into round two being on grafton street near th
e flower sellers and thinking wow, we were still in it and that it was different. Then there was Packie Bonners save and the lads bringing it to the Italians, It was different, It was very different, It was something you could respect and was not a
s they say in London, Twee. There was the usual passion and heart but in addition I think, there was some brains too, we had Big Jack, he was an insider and he had a plan of
 attack that everyone could their head around, there was a recognizable strategy( even if it was the long ball ). After that on a national scale, the pieces started falling into place. For me, I was away to the Gaeltact, Cnoc Beag nios Fear. I think t
his was the year after I got the slayer tee shirt from Augusta but that might have been the year before.
\par 
\par At this time though, the economy hadn\rquote t exploded, the IFSC w
asnt in mutual fund overload and all the IT people were in their rightful place, shuffling around Easons scrabbling for the latest editions of electronic magazine greats like Byte and Amstrad Anonymous. All that was to change though, with the coming 
of the Riverdance era. I think the tiger really went nuclear around 1995. The Dublin night life exploded around this time too, thankfully. Great Dj's on almost every night, Pod opening focusing an attractive image of irish youth. this is very different th
an in your forties cheesey style Lesson street. Clarence hotel componding this image. After going through times with Bryan Quinn, Johhny \'93the dj\'94 cullen and Andy Mac, i head off on my first foray into the states  returning in 98 to concentrate on 
making a living \endash  Time for a Fas course, followed by VTI and Miami. And some day, I will indeed make a living, hopefully at home :?)
\par 
\par From 200ish on :
\par i've kind of run out of steam here with the major events. Plus, ive spent so much time in the states so far this decade.
\par 
\par New millenium. Watched David Gray, one of ours - we put him on the map, play open air gig and walked the streets of Dublin with David Delany. All in all, the town had lost its dirty image and had the look of the place all the magazines had been talking
 about. Nightlife has lost its initial "buzz" as the real scene was well discovered by this stage, it moved off to a jungle in Bali or somewhere like that. Temple bar not a good place for an auld pint anymore. Was it ever ? Yes it was, s
ummer evenings in temple bar were really really nice, back in 1990.
\par 
\par Vectorial Elevation, none of the old theatrics of the aforementioned Laser show.
\par Bit of a dip in the world economy, it sector kicked in the nuts, bit of a scare. Trendy Bars opening becoming hard to keep up with whats what  i imagine.
\par 
\par 2005 ish, More robust, healthier, mature identity. People more relaxed and comfortable with selves. Tunnel disaster, Dublin Council well protected from all the goings on that have been happening over the last decade. Things are different though, we
 are still the same, only better, much much better.
\par 
\par 
\par The order of events in my mind.
\par 1985 ish
\par 1 ) Millenium Celebration with Grand finale laser show.
\par I remember going up killakee road with the carrols and watching events from up there, a great spot and it was to be synhcronized with a Radio 2 broadcast, fantastic. The laser show was a 
complete disaster and only visible at street level as it was projected on buildings and not up in the sky ( the vectorial elevation a good 20 years later rectified this nicely ). This was typical boa at the time, business as usual. I do remember hearing s
ome of the unforgetable fire on the the way back, it didnt really matter that the lasers didnt go off, it was a good night regardless.
\par 
\par 2 ) U2 at croke park, i wasnt there, but this is a seminal event in irish youth conciousouness and a demonstration of coo
l irish people doing it on thier terms. Many people who were at this concert would have gone on to buy their first houses for around 50 grand and are now probably well finished paying a relatively today small mortgage and making a bigger salary. This has 
put a lot of cash in peoples pockets.
\par 
\par During this time,  the groundwork is laid at a government level for the ifsc and also and artist laws and policies form to encourage the artist communitys. Also the incredible education system that our fathers generation insisted on.
\par 
\par 1989 ish
\par 3 ) Hot House Flowers on the Eurovision, mega single gained popularity on the continent. 
\par 
\par 1990
\par 2 ) Italia 90. Atoms coalescing.
\par First off, I was no where near the Liffey Trust during the 1990 world cup, i think i did a round for 
them during the euro92 qualifiers and got confused. Anyway, I was 16 years old, just finished 5th year but not yet experiencing the dread that an impending tour of the gaeltacht brings. I was riding high on the street cred that working on the bridge had b
r
ought, revelling in the prime of my rocker years. Knockers had gone away for a couple of weeks and got me a job filling in for him in the mornings for a couple of hours as a bicycle courier for a solicitor around aungier place, stanley siev was his name i
 
recall. italia 90 was gearing up. I remember when we got into round two being on grafton street near the flower sellers and thinking we were still in it and that it was different. This was different. It was a different feeeling, this was not Old Ireland. 
Packie Bonners save and bringing it to the Italians, goospimples all round. It was different.
\par 
\par 
\par 1995 ish. Going Nuclear.
\par 3 ) Riverdance, The Celtic Tiger I think this is the most apt point at which to say the nascent energy of a nation gains mainstream mome
ntum. IT takes off, IFSC starts to go into major overdrive, film and artist industry blosoming, Construction Industry booming, begor. people who went to RTC colleges in carlow to study computers are now coining it big time, laughing at their contemprories
 
who studied for their leaving cert rathar than complain about it during smoke breaks. Property begins its its now seemingly inexorable rise. NightLife is at its finest, Great Dj's on almost every night, Pod opening focusing an attractive image of irish yo
u
th. this is very different than in your forties cheesey Lesson street. Clarence hotel componding this image. i head off to the states for a few years in 95 before returning in 98 to concentrate on making a living - Its a Fas course for me, followed by VTI
 and Miami.
\par 
\par 200ish
\par 4 ) New millenium. Watched David Gray, one of ours - we put him on the map, play open air gig and walked the streets of Dublin with David Delany. All in all, the town had lost its dirty image and had the look of the place all the magazin
es had been raving about. Nightlife has lost its initial "buzz" as the scene was well discovered by this stage, temple bar becoming less of a good place for an auld pint. after a start to the millemium in 
\par 
\par Vectorial Elevation, none of the old theatrics of the aforementioned Laser show.
\par Bit of a dip in the world economy, it sector kicked in the nuts, bit of a scare. Trendy Bars opening becoming hard to keep up with i imagine.
\par 
\par 5 ) 2005 ish, More robust, healthier, mature identity. People more realxed and co
mfortable. Tunnel disaster, Dublin Council well protected from all the goings on that have been happening over the last decade. Things are different, we are still the same, only better, much much better.
\par 
\par i've kind of run out of steam here with the major events. plaus im a little knackered after getting all this down on paper.
\par 
\par 2002ish on : at this stage I forgoe the opportunity to return home and opt instead ( I say in the style of tony blair ) to stick it out with the good people of the USA. I have misgivings today about this decision,
 particularly in light of Pat chambers impending marriage. I have missed out the opportunity of a lifetime, to spend part of my twenties in the company of people I hold very dear, and instead spend it with a bunch of people who while i hold very dear too.

\par 
\par BackDrop of Life In America, Diaspora, What the hell is going on here. Is the larger community dissolving, dissipating, being overrun. Is America the lynchpin of the larger Irish community. Europeans see influence of American Irish in America, Americans
 see influence of Irish in Europe. However, If the Irish community in America is dispossessed what effect would that have on the
 overall global community and the community at home in Ireland. What if groups in America made it their goal to disposses this community. People here are dissolved into the very fabric of America.I don\rquote t 
think they could if they tried and if they could and did well more power to them. If its breakable, break it. This is crazy talk, Create a rallying point around which a counterbalance to us hegemony would arise. This is crazy talk, I 
far prefer thinking about what is going on in Ireland.  
\par 
\par 
\par }}